 Tfte August Resolution                                                                            47                         
                                                                                                                              
hasty steps and would like to avoid, in so far as is possible any                                                            
course of action that might embarrass the United Nations. The                                                                
Congress would be pleaded with the British power if it accepts                                                               
                                                                                                                             
the vety reasonable and just proposal herein made not only in                                                                
the interest of India, but also that of Britain and of the cause                                                             
                                                                                                                             
of freedom, to which the United Nations proclaim their adher¬                                                                
ence. Should, however, this appeal fail the Congress cannot                                                                  
view without the gravest apprehension the continuation of the                                                                
present state of affairs involving a progressive deterioration in                                                            
the situation and the weakening of India’s will and power to                                                                 
resist aggression. The Congress will then be reluctantly compel-'                                                            
led to utilise all the non-violent strength it might have gathered                                                           
since 1920, when it adopted non-violence as part of its policy                                                               
for the vindication of the political rights and liberty. Such a                                                              
widespread struggle would inevitably be under the leadership of                                                              
Mahatma Gandhi. As issues raised are of the most vital and                                                                   
far-reaching importance to the people of India as well as to the                                                             
peoples of the United Nations the Working Committee refer                                                                    
them to the AtHndia Congress Committee for final decision.                                                                   
For this purpose the ATCC will meet in Bombay on the 7th of                                                                  
August 1942.**    *t                                                                                                         
Prominent lenders like C. Rajagopalachari, K. Sanllmnam,                                                                     
S. Ramanatharc and T.S.S. Rajan reacted to the resolution of                                                                 
the Congress Working Committee thus in their letter to Maha¬                                                                 
tma Gandhi on 18 .July 1942. They considered it wrong to                                                                     
formulate a demand which, if complied with, must necessarily                                                                 
lead to anarchy or to frame a programme of widespread self-                                                                  
inflicted suffering based on the refusal of such a demand.                                                                   
Rajagopatnchari's letter of July ISth* 1042* to Mahatma                                                                      
Gandhi;---                                                                                                                   
Madras, July 18, 1942 ---Dear Mahatmaji, we have                                                                             
carefully read the resolution passed by the All-India Congress                                                               
Working Committee at Wardha on July 14, which is to be                                                                       
placed before the meeting of the A LC.C. next month, Jn view                                                                 
of the far-reaching consequences of the adoption of this                                                                     
resolution, we fed it our duty, having worked with you since                                                                 
1920. to place before you our considered views in this matter.                                                               
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                           *■
                6. N.N. MUra, 27;« fttftan Annual Remitter, 1942, Vbt. //, pp, 207-09,                                        
